We Started with the searching and finalizing of our project name and domain where we found that Machine learning and Artificial intelligence is a blooming industry and it is not yet implemented in Cricket so we finalized “AI Cricket Score” as our project. We intend to implement the detection of sign concept in the field of cricket. To make it happen we will have to capture the umpire’s signs in the field of cricket. We surveyed total of 10 Research Papers of different authors that have done projects in this field. We found that using web camera, we can capture the images and save in the respective directory of the sign. The images will then undergo for pre-processing techniques so that better quality of the images can be used for feature extraction. We also found about deep learning algorithms that can been implemented on the saved model for prediction. We have researched about modules that can be used in our project for high accuracy and we have started learning about them. Our work will also include data gathering using a web camera to increase the dataset size to more than 5000 RGB images making our prediction more robust. Process of real-time prediction using image frames from a web camera with rates of 50 to 100 Hz can also be used. Currently the aim of this project is limited to detecting Umpire’s gesture. Future Enhancement may include more cameras for detecting the umpire in 360 degree to improve gesture recognition and unique gestures for actions that do not have gestures can be added to reduce the workload on the review team. With enough funds this project can overtake and detect even the non gesture based actions like boundary detection for run out ,four and six runs.
